Esther/docs 9292 workspaces analyze retail inventory (#26298)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/logs/workspaces/use_cases/analyze_retail_inventory.md

---

> title: Analyze Login Attempts for e-PHI

Author: ```suggestion
title: Analyze Retail Inventory
```

further_reading:
- link: "/logs/workspaces/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Learn more about Log Workspaces"
---

## Use case

> Use Log Workspaces to perform a detailed analysis of products with low stock and high recent sales various different regions or countries. This guide walks you through the steps to:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use Log Workspaces to perform a detailed analysis of products with low stock and high recent sales in various different regions or countries. This guide walks you through the steps to:
```

- Join inventory, sales, and location data in a workspace
- Filter for products with low stock and high demand
- Visualize sales of each of these products by country

This process helps retailers prioritize restocking in geographic regions where demand is high, ensuring products in high demand remain available to customers.

## Setup

This guide assumes that you are:
- Already submitting logs to Datadog for a similar use case.
- Able to [create a workspace][1] and add cells. 

### 1. Bring in your data source

To get started, bring in the logs from the service(s) you want to analyze.

> 1. [Create a new Workspace][1].

Author: ```suggestion
1. [Create a Workspace][1].
```

Add a **Data source** cell, and search for your sales data in the same manner.

### 3. Join inventory and sales data

Analyze products with low stock and recent high sales by joining inventory and sales logs with an Analysis cell using SQL.

1. Add an [Analysis cell][3] to your workspace.
1. Create a SQL query to join the inventory and sales data to identify products with low stock and recently high sales.
1. Run this SQL query.
    ```sql
    SELECT 
      inventory.product_id,
      inventory.store_id,
      inventory.stock_level,
      inventory.threshold_level,
      sales.quantity_sold,
    FROM
      inventory_data AS inventory
    JOIN
      sales_data AS sales
      ON inventory.product_id = sales.product_id
      AND inventory.store_id = sales.store_id
    WHERE 
      inventory.stock_level < inventory.threshold_level
      AND sales.quantity_sold > 30;
    ```
    {{< img src="/logs/workspace/use_cases/analyze_retail_inventory/join_inventory_sales_data.png" alt="SQL query to join the inventory and sales data to identify products with low stock and recently high sales" style="width:100%;" >}}

> This analysis helps identify products with limited availability despite recent sales, indicating potential need for restocking. Additionaly, you can reveal other patterns, such as products with unexpected spikes in sales.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This analysis helps identify products with limited availability despite recent sales, indicating potential need for restocking. Additionally, you can reveal other patterns, such as products with unexpected spikes in sales.
```

You can further analyze your product sales by location. After identifying products with low stock and high recent sales, determine the countries where these products are most popular or experience the highest sales. 

Achieve this by joining your inventory and sales data with a [Reference Table][5] that includes store location information. Use the store ID to assess in which locations specific products are most popular.
1. **Add a Data Source Cell**: Select the Reference Table.
2. **Select the Reference Table**: Ensure you choose the correct table containing store location information.
  {{< img src="/logs/workspace/use_cases/analyze_retail_inventory/analyze_by_location.png" alt="Data source cell with the Reference table selected in Data source dropdown field" style="width:100%;" >}}
3. Write a SQL query to join the inventory and sales data, identifying products with low stock and recent high sales.
  ```sql
  SELECT
    lsa.product_id,
    location.store_country,
    sum(lsa.quantity_sold)
  FROM
    low_stock_analysis AS lsa
  JOIN
    store_location_data AS location
    ON lsa.store_id = location.store_id
  GROUP BY lsa.product_id, location.store_country
  ```

> For each product, this query sums the total quantity sold in each country and groups them in a way that will visualize by product, what were the quantities sold in each country. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This query sums the total quantity of each product sold in each country and groups the results by product and country.
```
tried to simplify this sentence, but you may choose to do something different

> For each product, we are summing the total quantity sold in each country and grouping them in a way that will allow us to visualize by product, what were the quantities sold in each country. 

Author: ```suggestion
For each product, this query sums the total quantity sold in each country and groups them in a way that will visualize by product, what were the quantities sold in each country. 
```
